So for our first model let's begin with something pretty straightforward like a couch just a sofa.
So I'm going to go here into Google and just type old couch and let's see if we can find something that's
just kind of run down kind of like this.
That's not bad but I'm not fond of these arms right here.
This is a little too much I think.
But this is kind of what I'm looking for something really ugly like this.
This actually looks just about right.
Oh yeah.
That is truly awful.
So let's go ahead and grab that.
So I've got my folder here.
I've got a file folder for reference images so I'll just call this sofa.
So there we go.
So that's the one we're going to do.
Perfect.
All right.
That was easy.
What I usually do when I'm trying to model something like this is I'll create a new window right over
here just pull this tab down to create a new window and let's change it to a movie image editor and
in the movie image editor will click open and I'll go find that file that I just downloaded in reference
images and there it is.
Now if you can't find it you can always click on this little button right here and that'll give you
a preview of each of the images.
But this is the one I want.
Open image.
And there we go.
So now I have it kind of here in front of me as I work.
Once again I think reference images are hugely important for anything you're doing.
All right so I'll go to a new layer right down here and begin fresh.
I think first what I'll do is maybe work on this piece down here right down here so just to kind of
establish the size of it right here.
So go to the Create tab click on cube and let's start getting this in place.
So I'm thinking that this will be about like maybe like this.
And I'm just hitting X and Y and then S and x to scale a bit.
Just trying to get a general sense of what this is going to look like kind of how big it's going to
be.
We can always adjust the proportions as we go.
But it's good to get it just generally in the right size and shape maybe a little bit more out in the
x something like that.
All right.
So now that we've got that let's start working on the arms here.
Once again I'm going to create a new cube.
Just click cube.
I'll scale it down a bit.
And I'll move to one side and it's scaled in the y s y and try and get this one in place as well.
Now I'm going to hit the three key on the number pad and that will pull me around to the right camera
and then I'll hit the five key and that gives me the orthographic view.
And let's just move this and place maybe a little bit narrower something like this.
So let's say it's going to be above that right about like that.
I'm looking at this here so here's this piece something like that it may need to come up just a little
bit more.
Something like that.
So I'm just trying to work out the basic details here.
Let's grab this face.
Hit that three key and pull that down to right about here.
Yeah I think that's going to work out.
I may want to pull this up just a little bit more.
So it's just a matter of trying to get it as close as you can to your reference image at this point.
So now I can maybe hit the one key and go back to object mode with the tab key and hit s and X and then
scale this out just a bit like that.
All right so I'll spin it around.
And so we're beginning to get that basic shape.
I we hit the five key to go back to perspective mode.
Maybe I'll pull these up just a little bit like this.
All right so grab this one hit that seven key five key to go to orthographic view and I'm going to duplicate
this arm and bring it over to the other side.
So under press shift d to duplicate and then I can hit the Y key and now when I move it it's going to
constrain that object to the y axis and really go all right now we need to work on that back part now.
It's kind of hard to see what's going on back there but I think what I'll do is I'll just grab this
and press shift d to duplicate it and hit enter to keep it where it is and then I'm just going to move
it back and rotate it around the y axis.
Now if I hit the in key A can see up here the rotate fields here.
If I hit r n y to rotate around the y axis here are y.
Now I can rotate around that axis and I can see the degrees changing up there in the y rotation field
so I'm going to bring it up to around.
I don't know around negative 90 here let's say and I'll type in the negative 90.
So there we go.
And let me hit that one key and five key and I'm going to bring this up put it back here a bit like
that.
I want to scale it out in the y s y.
And now if I tab into edit mode and grab that face I'm going to bring it down to where the top of the
arm is.
Because I think this top part kind of angle is back.
So if I get e to extrude and pull up a bit and then maybe lean it back just like that and even rotate
it a smidge.
Maybe that'll work.
Let's try that
something like this.
OK.
So we're beginning to get the shape of the couch there.
We need pillows right.
We need pillows here so it looks to me it still looks to me like it's a little bit not quite long enough
so I'm going to select all these here and press S and Y and scale just a bit that's looking a little
bit better I think.
Now I'll hit the A key to de-select and this time instead of going to the Create tab I'll press shift
a and I'll choose Nash and cube.
Now going to bring this up and this is going to be the first cushion I'll press S and Z and scale it
down a bit and let's bring this right down here and if I go to the top view and I'm going hit the Z
key to go to wireframe and I want to scale this out in the Y and the X but not the Z I want to keep
it the same thickness but I want to scale it out in the y in the X so to do that I can press S for scale
and then I can press shift and Z and that will cancel out the Z axis so I'm only scaling in the Y on
the X.
So maybe something like this.
Now S X and we go right now and hit the five key again.
Now see if we can get these in place I'll press shift D and y move these over here.
Looks like I need to bring him in just a bit s y scale in s y scale in just a little bit.
Not duplicate.
And why bring that over here OK.
So that is the basic shape.
Now we need these pillows up here.
So I think what I'll do is I'll just grab one of these again like this and I'll duplicate it.
Press Enter now I'll just bring it up.
Rotated around the y r y and then maybe scale this in the z axis.
But now that I've angled this if I hit Z if I scale in the z axis with s and Z it's going to scale not
quite the way I want it to.
I want it to scale in line with the object not straight up and down.
So I can always switch from global transformation orientation to local right here.
Now you can also do that by pressing alt space and then you get this orientation menu and you can switch
from global to local here as well.
But if you notice when I did that the transformation gizmo here now is aligned to the object.
So now I can switch to scale and I can scale this in a bit something like that.
Now I want to move it back straight back in to do that I'll switch back to Global so alt space global.
And one thing I've done here is I've added some extra keyboard shortcuts so that I can switch from the
move gizmo to the rotate gizmo to the scale gizmo here very easily.
So the way I have it set up is I press control alt left arrow to go to the move manipulator and then
I press control alt down arrow to go to the rotate manipulator and then control alt right arrow to go
to the scale.
So it's you may see me doing that quite a bit now the way you change this the way you set up a new keyboard
shortcut for yourself is up here under file and user preferences and you can go into here and go into
input go to 3D view 3D view global.
And then if you scroll all the way down you'll see you've got this add new.
And if you click add noom which you can do is create new shortcuts.
You can see here that I've done that three times I clicked add new and then I put this view 3D dot enable
underscore manipulator and I chose the left arrow control and alt right and then I did the same thing
here with the down arrow control and all.
Now each one of these does something right here you can see Andrew translate I've got translate checked
here.
I've got rotate checked here and I've got scale checked here so you can create your own keyboard shortcut
to switch between one manipulator or another.
Because Blendr doesn't really give you by default the ability to switch the manipulator using a keyboard
shortcut.
All right.
McLaws this down and let's keep going with our our couch here.
I think I'll rotate that just a little bit like this and it doesn't look like it goes up quite that
high so maybe I will scale it a little bit.
Here down just a little bit like that and maybe a little bit.
And I don't think it needs to be quite that thick.
There we go something like that.
All right I'll go ahead and duplicate this all go back to the move manipulator press shift D and I'll
hit enter and then I'll just drag this over to here and once again it looks like I've got it a little
bit askew there now doesn't it.
Let me press R and Z.
And sure enough I've got it kind of catty Wampus me see if I can fix this one a bit here too.
And we go and I'll zero out the X as well as we go.
All right so now that I've got the basic shape here I think one last thing I want to do is put some
feet on here.
I think what I'll do is just create a couple of cylinders.
I'll come up here to the Create tab and I'll click on cylinder and that'll pop that into here.
I don't think I need 32.
Maybe I'll just do 12 sides and for the can't fill you can choose either in gun or triangle fan or nothing
and I think I just want nothing there so scale that down hit the three key and the 5 key to go to orthographic
view and I'll just move this right over here something like that.
That still looks a little too high so I'm going to hit the Z key and then two border select this whole
group of objects I'm going to test the B key and click and drag and that will just border select all
of these.
Now I can just move them down and we go now for this.
I'll go ahead and duplicate it.
I'll go to the top view and move it forward a bit.
I like this maybe it can be right about here.
I like that.
And then I'll duplicate and press Y and then move this up to here.
And then I select them both and press shift D and then X and we move these back here like that we go.
All right so what I'm going to do is begin selecting some of these areas and maybe using the subdivision
service modifier I'll start giving these a little bit of a curve so I can come over here to the modifiers
panel and if I click add a modifier and subdivision surface it kind of collapses into that.
And that's kind of ugly but that's OK if I hit the tab key you can see there's the original mesh of
the object.
So what I can do is press control are to add an edge loop and I'm going to bring it over here and I'll
scroll the mouse wheel once and click and then click again.
And that gives us that.
And I'll then do the same thing vertically.
But this time I'll take these two edges and I'll press S and Y and I'll scale them out like this.
And maybe I'll press alt and click.
So that will select that whole edge loop all the way around and I'll press alt and shift and click and
you can see if I hit the Z key that selected those edges all the way around.
So now I'm going to press S and Z and that'll scale this up a bit.
So I think I'm in a press this view area right here to give it a little bit more of a curve there.
I think I'm going to add a couple of edges right in here and maybe a couple one more right in there.
We'll be applying this to make this geometry permanent.
But for now let's see how it's going to look.
Let's start doing that with one of these over here.
So I'm going to add a subdivision surface modifier take it up to let's say and let's start adding a
few edge loops here.
Maybe three s and X and scale those out of it.
And let's maybe add three here s and Z and scale those up a bit and we go
and looks like I've got those edges a little too close doesn't it all to click this edge and bring it
down just a bit and maybe Allt click this edge and bring it back just to hair something like that.
Maybe I'll add one right down the middle there and kind of hold that.
All right.
Let's take a look at these here.
Now add a subdivision surface modifier.
Same process.
So we get a little bit of a curve to it and I'll take a look at this one too.
I'll do the same thing for this one.
So division surface two views and let's add a few adjectives here this time once again I'll go back
to local mode and scale in the X like this and this over here.
I'll scale on the Y all right.
And this part right back here this kind of looks like I could soften this up a bit to now I use all
these pillows as kind of just placeholders to get a sense of the size of this thing I'm going to go
ahead and just delete these because I don't need them right now.
I'm going to use these to try and get these the right size and shape
so I'm going to go ahead and scale this out just a hair and maybe even take this add an edge in here
and then scale this out just a little bit so I'll press ass and shift Z to make sure it doesn't scale
and Z.
I guess it wouldn't.
What if it's only an edge so it wouldn't scale in the Z any way.
Go ahead and
take this point and just move it up just a hair other Zoll move down and kind of beat up the edges a
bit.
This down here I think I could scale in the z and maybe move up a bit.
So it kind of pushes up against that.
So they look a little bit like cushions and I'm just trying to scale and place this as best I can.
I'll have the scale and wind to move that out a bit.
There we go.
So now let's go ahead and smooth these I'm going to go up to the tools tab here and right down under
shading we have a smooth button and we can kind of take care of some of this blocking this or sitting
here with this smooth button kind of like that gives us a little bit of a smoother
look to the object.
Something like that
right.
This looks a little move this backs.
I just added an edge loop there and I think I want to scale this out just a bit and move it this way
up a little bit.
So it kind of intersects with that.
Here we go.
So now let me go ahead and duplicate these
just to take a look at how it looks.
Duplicate.
And then why
right.
Yeah I think that's pretty good.
I think maybe I want to make this arm just a little bit taller so s and Z maybe something like that.
If I look at it here in the front view with three key or or the right view with the three key and then
move that up just a bit like that.
Let's take a look at it now.
Yeah go ahead and delete this and move this over so I'll hit the 7 key and then the 5 key and the Z
key as well and I'll select this one piece shift d y and move on up here.
Now if you're having trouble getting the object right where you want it it seems to be moving too quickly
for you.
You can press the shift key while you're moving and it will move it in smaller increments just a little
bit slower.
So you can place it just where you want it.
Right.
So there we go there's the beginnings of our couch.
Now the next thing we need to do is U-V map it.